_teaching/2020-probtheory.md, before:

---
title: "Introduction to Probability Theory"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2020-probtheory
venue: "IUT Orsay"
date: 2020-09-01
location: "Orsay, France"
---
An introduction to probability theory concluding with an introduction to statistical tests.

Foundations of Probability
======
- Probability Axioms
- Events
- Mutually Exclusive Events
- Law of Total Probability
- Conditional Probability
- Bayes’ Rule
- Independent Events

Discrete Random Variables
======
- Definition of a Random Variable
- Cumulative Distribution Functions
- Examples: Discrete Uniform, Bernoulli, Binomial, Geometric
- Independent Random variables

Jointly Distributed Discrete Random Variables
======
- Marginal distributions
- Conditional distributions
- Sum and product of Random Variables
- Expectation and variance of Random Variables
- Correlation

Continuous Random Variables
=======
- Probability Density Functions
- Examples: Continuous Uniform, Gaussian
- Function of random variables
- Change of variables

Convergence
=====
- Convergence in law
- Central limit theorem
- Poisson distribution
- Approximation of Binomial distribution by Poisson or Gaussian distributions

Statistical tests
====
- Principles of statistical tests
- Decision rule, risk, power, p-value
- Test comparisons

Commit message:

add weak law of large numbers

_teaching/2020-probtheory.md, after:

---
title: "Introduction to Probability Theory"
collection: teaching
type: "Undergraduate course"
permalink: /teaching/2020-probtheory
venue: "IUT Orsay"
date: 2020-09-01
location: "Orsay, France"
---
An introduction to probability theory concluding with an introduction to statistical tests.

Foundations of Probability
======
- Probability Axioms
- Events
- Mutually Exclusive Events
- Law of Total Probability
- Conditional Probability
- Bayes’ Rule
- Independent Events

Discrete Random Variables
======
- Definition of a Random Variable
- Cumulative Distribution Functions
- Examples: Discrete Uniform, Bernoulli, Binomial, Geometric
- Independent Random variables

Jointly Distributed Random Variables
======
- Marginal distributions
- Conditional distributions
- Sum and product of Random Variables
- Expectation and variance of Random Variables
- Correlation

Continuous Random Variables
=======
- Probability Density Functions
- Examples: Continuous Uniform, Gaussian
- Function of random variables
- Change of variables

Convergence
=====
- Convergence in law, Convergence in probability
- Central limit theorem, Weak law of large numbers
- Poisson distribution
- Approximation of Binomial distribution by Poisson or Gaussian distributions

Statistical tests
====
- Principles of statistical tests
- Decision rule, risk, power, p-value
- Test comparisons
